Blog - Securing Kubernetes with Network Policies (#448)
earthly/website: blog/_posts/2023-06-07-kubernetes-network-policies.md

---

> title: "Securing Kubernetes with Network Policies"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Securing Kubernetes With Network Policies"
```

$ kubectl label namespace kube-system contains=coredns
~~~

For ease, we will run nginx pods in each namespace. This is to have a simple application running and curl these applications endpoints and test the connectivity. Feel free to run whatever app you want to run across different namespaces.

~~~{.bash caption=">_"}
$ kubectl run frontend --image=nginx -n frontend
$ kubectl run backend --image=nginx -n backend
$ kubectl run db --image=nginx -n db
~~~

Make sure the pods are up and running in each namespace. Note that each pod is created with a default label which will be used later to select these pods.

~~~{.bash caption=">_"}
$ kubectl get pods -n frontend --show-labels
$ kubectl get pods -n backend --show-labels
$ kubectl get pods -n db --show-labels
~~~

<div class="wide">
![kubectl get pods]({{site.images}}{{page.slug}}/j6kxMk0.png)
</div>

Then, we will expose each pod internally through a service resource as below.

~~~{.bash caption=">_"}
$ kubectl expose pod frontend --name=frontend-svc -n frontend --port=80
$ kubectl expose pod backend --name=backend-svc -n backend --port=80
$ kubectl expose pod db --name=db-svc -n db --port=80
~~~

<div class="notice--info">

> This is to be able to communicate with the applications running on pods through Kubernetes services. Because in real life scenarios, pods are not communicating directly but through service resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Communication with the applications running on pods is facilitated by [Kubernetes services](/blog/kubernetes-services/). Because in real-world applications, pods are not communicating directly but through service resources.
```

~~~

Final step in this section is to allow frontend pods and backend pods to communicate with `coredns` pod in `kube-system` namespace, to be able to resolve services' DNS names.

Create a new file `allow_frontend_backend_egress_dns.yaml` and place the following YAML content inside:

~~~{.yaml caption="allow_frontend_backend_egress_dns.yaml"}
kind: NetworkPolicy
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: all-pods-egress-allow-dns
  namespace: frontend
spec:
  podSelector: {}
  policyTypes:
  - Egress
  egress:
    - to:
      - namespaceSelector:
          matchLabels:
            contains: coredns
        podSelector:
          matchLabels:
            k8s-app: kube-dns
---
kind: NetworkPolicy
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: all-pods-egress-allow-dns
  namespace: backend
spec:
  podSelector: {}
  policyTypes:
  - Egress
  egress:
    - to:
      - namespaceSelector:
          matchLabels:
            contains: coredns
        podSelector:
          matchLabels:
            k8s-app: kube-dns
~~~

Apply the network policy with the below command

~~~{.bash caption=">_"}
$ kubectl apply -f allow_frontend_backend_egress_dns.yaml
~~~

> Now let's execute different commands to make sure the network policies are working as expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now let's execute different commands to make sure the network policies are working as expected:
```
